HACKING.md, before:

# Hacking

- [Development setup](#maas-ui-development-setup)
- [Running a branch](#running-a-branch)
- [Setting up or connecting to a MAAS](#maas-deployments)
- [Creating a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance)
- [Creating a LXD instance](#creating-a-lxd-instance)
- [Building for production](#building)
- [Testing with Cypress](#testing-with-cypress)
- [Adding a new yarn workspace](#adding-a-new-yarn-workspace)

# maas-ui development setup

**Note: You will need access to a running instance of MAAS in order to run maas-ui.**

## Set up a development container

### Start the instance

You may wish to use an existing instance, or you can [create a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance) or [create a LXD instance](#creating-a-lxd-instance).

For now we'll assume you have an instance called "dev".

#### Multipass

Start your instance:

```shell
multipass start dev
```

Make sure your instance has [SSH credentials](#ssh-credentials) and then SSH into your machine, optionally with agent forwarding:

```shell
ssh [-A] multipass@dev.local
```

#### LXD

Start your instance:

```shell
lxc start dev
```

Connect to the instance as the provided `ubuntu` user:

```shell
lxc exec dev bash -- su ubuntu
```

### Clone the repository

If you're planning to contribute changes to maas-ui then first you'll need to make a fork of the [maas-ui project](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/maas-ui) in GitHub.

Then, inside your MAAS container clone the maas-ui repository.

```shell
git clone -o upstream git@github.com:canonical-web-and-design/maas-ui
cd maas-ui
git remote add origin git@github.com:<github-username>/maas-ui
```

Otherwise you can just use:

```shell
git clone git@github.com:canonical-web-and-design/maas-ui
cd maas-ui
```

### Edit local config

By default maas-ui will connect to `karura.internal` which requires Canonical VPN access. If you wish to develop against a different MAAS then you can create a local env:

```shell
touch proxy/.env.local
```

Update the contents of that file to point to a MAAS. [See the section on MAAS deployments](#maas-deployments).

```shell
MAAS_URL="http://<maas-ip-or-hostname>:5240/"
```

The easiest way to run maas-ui is with [Dotrun](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/dotrun). You can install it with:

```shell
sudo snap install dotrun
```

You should now be able to run maas-ui and log into your MAAS:

```shell
dotrun
```

Once everything has built you can access the site using the hostname:

[http://dev.local:8400/MAAS/](http://dev.local:8400/MAAS/).

### Running a branch

To run a branch from a PR you can find and click on the link "command line instructions" and copy the command from "Step 1". It should look something like:

```shell
git checkout -b username-branch-name master
git pull https://github.com/username/maas-ui.git branch-name
```

Run those commands from the maas-ui dir (`cd ~/maas-ui`).

Then run the branch with:

```shell
dotrun
```

If something doesn't seem right you can try:

```shell
dotrun clean
dotrun
```

# MAAS deployments

## Canonical VPN deployments

If you have access to the Canonical VPN you can use one of the following MAAS deployments. You may need to do some [additional configuration](#vpn-configuration) inside your multipass instance.

Once connected to the VPN you can connect to one of the following MAAS deployments using the [credentials](https://wiki.canonical.com/WebAndDesign/DesignMaasLab).

### Karura

[karura.internal](http://karura.internal:5240/MAAS) (last stable release).

### Bolla

[bolla.internal](http://bolla.internal:5240/MAAS) (master)

## Local deployments

### Snap deployment

The easiest way to run a MAAS locally is using a snap. However, this method does not provide sample data and therefore will not have everything e.g. there will be no machines.

First you'll need to either [create a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance) or [create a LXD container](#creating-a-lxd-container), call it something like "snap-maas".

Then enter the shell for that instance:

#### Multipass

```shell
multipass shell snap-maas
```

#### LXD

```shell
lxc exec snap-maas bash -- su ubuntu
```

Now install MAAS and a test database:

```shell
sudo snap install maas maas-test-db
```

Once that has completed you'll need to intialise the MAAS:

```shell
sudo maas init region+rack --database-uri maas-test-db:///
```

Now create a user:

```shell
sudo maas createadmin
```

You should now be able to access the MAAS in your browser:

[http://snap-maas.local:8400/MAAS/](http://snap-maas.local:8400/MAAS/).

You might now need to [configure maas-ui](#edit-local-config) to use this MAAS.

#### Updating a snap MAAS

To update your MAAS manually you can run:

```shell
sudo snap refresh maas
```

You can update to a different version with something like:

```shell
sudo snap refresh --channel=2.8 maas
```

### Development deployment

First you'll need to either [create a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance) or [create a LXD container](#creating-a-lxd-instance), call it something like "dev-maas".

Then enter the shell for that instance:

#### Multipass

```shell
multipass shell dev-maas
```

#### LXD
```
lxc exec dev-maas bash -- su ubuntu
```

You'll need to fetch the current MAAS master:

```shell
git clone http://git.launchpad.net/maas
```

And then build MAAS and set up some sampledata:

```shell
cd maas
make install-dependencies
make
make syncdb
make sampledata
```

Now you should be ready to start the MAAS, you'll need to do this each time you start the Multipass instance.

```shell
make start
```

At this point you can [configure maas-ui](#edit-local-config) to use this maas with the default credentials (admin/test). If you wish to view the ui from that MAAS deployment you'll need to [build the UI](#running-maas-ui-from-a-development-maas).

#### Stopping a development MAAS

If you need to stop the MAAS you can run:

```shell
ps -ef | grep 'regiond' | grep -v grep | awk '{print $2}' | xargs -r kill -9
```

#### Updating a development MAAS

Enter the shell for your MAAS instance:

#### Multipass

```shell
multipass shell dev-maas
```

#### LXD

``` shell
lxc exec dev-maas -- su ubuntu
```


If MAAS is currently running then [stop it](#stopping-a-development-maas).

Now fetch the latest master, clean and rebuild your MAAS.

_Note: this will clear all your MAAS data and is more reliable, but you can attempt to run `make clean` instead of `make clean+db` to preserve your current data._

```shell
cd ~/maas
make clean+db
git pull
make install-dependencies
make
make syncdb
make sampledata
make start
```

#### Running maas-ui from a development maas

If you have previously built the UI then run:

```shell
cd ~/maas
make clean-ui
```

Optional: if you wish to use a specific branch of maas-ui then run:

```shell
git config --file=.gitmodules submodule.src/maasui/src.url https://github.com/[github-username]/maas-ui.git
git config --file=.gitmodules submodule.src/maasui/src.branch [branch name]
git submodule sync
git submodule update --init --recursive --remote
```

Optional: if you want to restore to maas-ui master then run:

```shell
git checkout .gitmodules
git submodule sync
git submodule update --init --recursive --remote
```

Now you can make the UI

```shell
make ui
```

If that fails you can try:

```shell
SKIP_PREFLIGHT_CHECK=true make ui
```

You should now be able to access the MAAS in your browser:

[http://dev-maas.local:8400/MAAS/](http://dev-maas.local:8400/MAAS/).

# Creating a Multipass instance

## Install Multipass

First, install Multipass:

- [on Linux](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-linux), or
- [on a Mac](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-macos).

## Create the instance:

To be able to run maas-ui or MAAS you should allocate as many resources as you can to the instance. Don't worry, it'll share the CPU and RAM with the host and only take up the disk space it currently requires.

_Note: you can't increase the disk size once the instance has been created_

Check what resources your computer has and then run:

```shell
multipass launch -c [the number of cores] -d [some amount of disk space] -m [the amount of ram] --name [the instance name]
```

You should end up with a command something like this:

```shell
multipass launch -c 4 -d 20G -m 16G --name dev
```

## SSH credentials

You have two options for having SSH credentials in your Multipass instance.

### Host credentials

This method allows you to use the SSH credentials from your host machine and doesn't require you to create new SSH credentials for each Multipass instance.

You can follow [this guide](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) for setting up the ssh-agent.

Then you can log into your instance with:

```shell
ssh -A multipass@[instance-name].local
```

### Instance credentials

Access your instance with:

```shell
multipass shell [instance-name]
```

Then [generate a new SSH key](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) and [add it to your Github account](https://help.github.com/en/articles/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

### macOS

#### VPN configuration

To connect to a remote MAAS over the VPN, you'll need to configure _nat_ on your macOS host:

1. run `ifconfig` and make note of the `utun` interfaces.
2. For every `utun` interface, add the following line to `/etc/pf.conf` directly after any existing `nat-anchor` or `nat` commands (the order is significant):

```shell
nat on utun0 from bridge100:network to any -> (utun0)
```

3. Run `sudo pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf` to update configuration.
4. You should be able to `ping karura.internal` from your maas multipass.

Be aware that this may prevent reaching hosts on your internal network. You can of course comment out the `nat` configuration and rerun `sudo pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf` to reset everything.

# Creating a LXD instance

## Install LXD on Linux

The recommended way to install LXD is with the snap. For the latest stable release, use:

``` shell
snap install lxd
```

If you previously had the LXD deb package installed, you can migrate all your existing data over with:
``` shell
lxd.migrate
```

See the [official LXD docs](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/#installation) for information on installing LXD on other OSes.

## Initialise LXD

By default, LXD comes with no configured network or storage. You can get a basic configuration suitable for MAAS with:

``` shell
lxd init
```

## Launch the instance

You can launch an instance with the command `lxc launch`:

``` shell
lxc launch imageserver:imagename instancename
```

For example, to create an instance based on the Ubuntu Focal Fossa image with the name `focal-maas`, you would run:

``` shell
lxc launch ubuntu:20.04 focal-maas
```

See [the image server for LXC and LXD](https://us.images.linuxcontainers.org/) for a list of available images.

## Container credentials

Access your instance with:

```shell
lxc exec [container-name] bash -- su ubuntu
```

Then [generate a new SSH key](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) and [add it to your Github account](https://help.github.com/en/articles/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).


# Building

Ensure both node (current LTS) and yarn are installed.

From the root of the MAAS UI project run:

```shell
dotrun build-all
```

Optimised production bundles for both `ui` and `legacy` will be built, and output to `./build`.

# Testing with Cypress

[Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) is an end-to-end Javascript testing framework that executes in the browser, and therefore in the same run loop as the device under test. It includes features such as time travel (through the use of UI snapshots), real-time reloads and automatic/intuitive waiting.

## Running headless tests

To run headless Cypress tests, enter the following command from the root of the project:

```shell
yarn test-cypress
```

This will automatically start legacy, ui and proxy servers and run the Cypress tests, in which results are logged to the console. After running the tests, the servers and process will close.

## Interactive testing

By launching the Cypress Test Runner, you will be able to to see commands as they execute while also viewing the UI while it's being tested. Note that because the Cypress Test Runner is a graphical application, launching it in a container or VM will require some extra steps because you will need to forward the XVFB messages from Cypress out of the container into an X11 server running on the host machine.

### Interactive testing on host machine

If developing directly on your host machine, simply run maas-ui in development as normal:

```shell
yarn serve
```

Then open the Cypress Test Runner by running:

```shell
yarn cypress-open
```

You should then see a list of test specs in maas-ui. You can run all interactive tests by clicking "Run all specs" in the top-right of the window.

### Interactive testing in LXD

You will need to create or update an LXD profile that allows running GUI applications. If creating a new profile, run:

```shell
lxc profile create gui
```

Open the profile config:

```shell
lxc profile edit gui
```

And replace with the following yaml:

```yaml
config:
  environment.DISPLAY: :0
  raw.idmap: both 1000 1000
  user.user-data: |
    #cloud-config
    runcmd:
      - 'sed -i "s/; enable-shm = yes/enable-shm = no/g" /etc/pulse/client.conf'
      - 'echo export PULSE_SERVER=unix:/tmp/.pulse-native | tee --append /home/ubuntu/.profile'
    packages:
      - x11-apps
      - mesa-utils
      - pulseaudio
description: GUI LXD profile
devices:
  PASocket:
    path: /tmp/.pulse-native
    source: /run/user/1000/pulse/native
    type: disk
  X0:
    path: /tmp/.X11-unix/X0
    source: /tmp/.X11-unix/X0
    type: disk
  mygpu:
    type: gpu
name: gui
used_by:
```

Now either launch a new container with this profile, for example using Ubuntu 18.04:

```shell
lxc launch --profile default --profile gui ubuntu:18.04 container-name
```

Or if you have an existing LXD container, you can update the profile by running:

```shell
lxc profile assign existing-container default,gui
lxc restart existing-container
```

Install the following dependencies in your container, which are required for Cypress to relay information to the host machine:

```shell
sudo apt-get install xvfb libgtk-3-dev libnotify-dev libgconf-2-4 libnss3 libxss1 libasound2
```

You may need to install Cypress explicitly if you've set up file-sharing with your host/container.

```shell
node_modules/.bin/cypress install
```

You should now be able to open the Cypress Test Runner in your container by running:

```shell
yarn cypress-open
```

If you encounter an error with file watchers e.g. `ENOSPC: System limit for number of file watchers reached`, run:

```shell
echo "fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288" | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
sudo sysctl -p
```

For more information on running GUI applications in LXD, refer to [this blog post](https://blog.simos.info/how-to-easily-run-graphics-accelerated-gui-apps-in-lxd-containers-on-your-ubuntu-desktop/).

### Interactive testing in multipass

Install the following dependencies in your multipass, which are required for Cypress to relay information to the host machine:

```shell
sudo apt-get install xvfb libgtk-3-dev libnotify-dev libgconf-2-4 libnss3 libxss1 libasound2
```

Next, validate whether ssh on the multipass VM is configured to forward X11 communication. Ensure you have the following values in `/etc/ssh/ssh_config`:

```shell
ForwardX11 yes
ForwardX11Trusted yes
```

And the following values in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`:

```shell
X11Forwarding yes
X11DisplayOffset 10
PrintMotd no
TCPKeepAlive yes
```

The following steps will differ depending on the OS of the host system.

#### Ubuntu setup

Since you are running from an Ubuntu graphical desktop then you already have an X11 server running locally so no further installation is necessary.

#### MacOS setup

First install XQuartz, which is the Mac version of X11. You can install XQuartz using homebrew with:

```shell
brew cask install xquartz
```

Or directly from the website [here](https://www.xquartz.org/). You will now need to restart your machine.

Start XQuartz using:

```shell
open -a XQuartz
```

In the XQuartz preferences, go to the “Security” tab and make sure you’ve got “Allow connections from network clients” ticked.

#### Establish connection

Establish an ssh connection from your graphical desktop to the remote X client using the “-Y” switch for trusted X11 forwarding. Note that you may need to add your host's public SSH key to the multipass' list of allowed hosts.

```shell
ssh -Y multipass@<multipass-ip>
```

You should now be able to run the Cypress Test Runner by running:

```shell
yarn cypress-open
```

# Adding a new yarn workspace

To add a new yarn workspace, edit `package.json` and add the project's directory name to the `workspaces` array.

To import modules from existing projects in your new project, add the dependant projects to your projects dependencies in `package.json`.

Commit message:

Add Cypress machine listing tests.

HACKING.md, after:

# Hacking

- [Development setup](#maas-ui-development-setup)
- [Running a branch](#running-a-branch)
- [Setting up or connecting to a MAAS](#maas-deployments)
- [Creating a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance)
- [Creating a LXD instance](#creating-a-lxd-instance)
- [Building for production](#building)
- [Testing with Cypress](#testing-with-cypress)
- [Adding a new yarn workspace](#adding-a-new-yarn-workspace)

# maas-ui development setup

**Note: You will need access to a running instance of MAAS in order to run maas-ui.**

## Set up a development container

### Start the instance

You may wish to use an existing instance, or you can [create a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance) or [create a LXD instance](#creating-a-lxd-instance).

For now we'll assume you have an instance called "dev".

#### Multipass

Start your instance:

```shell
multipass start dev
```

Make sure your instance has [SSH credentials](#ssh-credentials) and then SSH into your machine, optionally with agent forwarding:

```shell
ssh [-A] multipass@dev.local
```

#### LXD

Start your instance:

```shell
lxc start dev
```

Connect to the instance as the provided `ubuntu` user:

```shell
lxc exec dev bash -- su ubuntu
```

### Clone the repository

If you're planning to contribute changes to maas-ui then first you'll need to make a fork of the [maas-ui project](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/maas-ui) in GitHub.

Then, inside your MAAS container clone the maas-ui repository.

```shell
git clone -o upstream git@github.com:canonical-web-and-design/maas-ui
cd maas-ui
git remote add origin git@github.com:<github-username>/maas-ui
```

Otherwise you can just use:

```shell
git clone git@github.com:canonical-web-and-design/maas-ui
cd maas-ui
```

### Edit local config

By default maas-ui will connect to `karura.internal` which requires Canonical VPN access. If you wish to develop against a different MAAS then you can create a local env:

```shell
touch proxy/.env.local
```

Update the contents of that file to point to a MAAS. [See the section on MAAS deployments](#maas-deployments).

```shell
MAAS_URL="http://<maas-ip-or-hostname>:5240/"
```

The easiest way to run maas-ui is with [Dotrun](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/dotrun). You can install it with:

```shell
sudo snap install dotrun
```

You should now be able to run maas-ui and log into your MAAS:

```shell
dotrun
```

Once everything has built you can access the site using the hostname:

[http://dev.local:8400/MAAS/](http://dev.local:8400/MAAS/).

### Running a branch

To run a branch from a PR you can find and click on the link "command line instructions" and copy the command from "Step 1". It should look something like:

```shell
git checkout -b username-branch-name master
git pull https://github.com/username/maas-ui.git branch-name
```

Run those commands from the maas-ui dir (`cd ~/maas-ui`).

Then run the branch with:

```shell
dotrun
```

If something doesn't seem right you can try:

```shell
dotrun clean
dotrun
```

# MAAS deployments

## Canonical VPN deployments

If you have access to the Canonical VPN you can use one of the following MAAS deployments. You may need to do some [additional configuration](#vpn-configuration) inside your multipass instance.

Once connected to the VPN you can connect to one of the following MAAS deployments using the [credentials](https://wiki.canonical.com/WebAndDesign/DesignMaasLab).

### Karura

[karura.internal](http://karura.internal:5240/MAAS) (last stable release).

### Bolla

[bolla.internal](http://bolla.internal:5240/MAAS) (master)

## Local deployments

### Snap deployment

The easiest way to run a MAAS locally is using a snap. However, this method does not provide sample data and therefore will not have everything e.g. there will be no machines.

First you'll need to either [create a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance) or [create a LXD container](#creating-a-lxd-container), call it something like "snap-maas".

Then enter the shell for that instance:

#### Multipass

```shell
multipass shell snap-maas
```

#### LXD

```shell
lxc exec snap-maas bash -- su ubuntu
```

Now install MAAS and a test database:

```shell
sudo snap install maas maas-test-db
```

Once that has completed you'll need to intialise the MAAS:

```shell
sudo maas init region+rack --database-uri maas-test-db:///
```

Now create a user:

```shell
sudo maas createadmin
```

You should now be able to access the MAAS in your browser:

[http://snap-maas.local:8400/MAAS/](http://snap-maas.local:8400/MAAS/).

You might now need to [configure maas-ui](#edit-local-config) to use this MAAS.

#### Updating a snap MAAS

To update your MAAS manually you can run:

```shell
sudo snap refresh maas
```

You can update to a different version with something like:

```shell
sudo snap refresh --channel=2.8 maas
```

### Development deployment

First you'll need to either [create a Multipass instance](#creating-a-multipass-instance) or [create a LXD container](#creating-a-lxd-instance), call it something like "dev-maas".

Then enter the shell for that instance:

#### Multipass

```shell
multipass shell dev-maas
```

#### LXD
```
lxc exec dev-maas bash -- su ubuntu
```

You'll need to fetch the current MAAS master:

```shell
git clone http://git.launchpad.net/maas
```

And then build MAAS and set up some sampledata:

```shell
cd maas
make install-dependencies
make
make syncdb
make sampledata
```

Now you should be ready to start the MAAS, you'll need to do this each time you start the Multipass instance.

```shell
make start
```

At this point you can [configure maas-ui](#edit-local-config) to use this maas with the default credentials (admin/test). If you wish to view the ui from that MAAS deployment you'll need to [build the UI](#running-maas-ui-from-a-development-maas).

#### Stopping a development MAAS

If you need to stop the MAAS you can run:

```shell
ps -ef | grep 'regiond' | grep -v grep | awk '{print $2}' | xargs -r kill -9
```

#### Updating a development MAAS

Enter the shell for your MAAS instance:

#### Multipass

```shell
multipass shell dev-maas
```

#### LXD

``` shell
lxc exec dev-maas -- su ubuntu
```


If MAAS is currently running then [stop it](#stopping-a-development-maas).

Now fetch the latest master, clean and rebuild your MAAS.

_Note: this will clear all your MAAS data and is more reliable, but you can attempt to run `make clean` instead of `make clean+db` to preserve your current data._

```shell
cd ~/maas
make clean+db
git pull
make install-dependencies
make
make syncdb
make sampledata
make start
```

#### Running maas-ui from a development maas

If you have previously built the UI then run:

```shell
cd ~/maas
make clean-ui
```

Optional: if you wish to use a specific branch of maas-ui then run:

```shell
git config --file=.gitmodules submodule.src/maasui/src.url https://github.com/[github-username]/maas-ui.git
git config --file=.gitmodules submodule.src/maasui/src.branch [branch name]
git submodule sync
git submodule update --init --recursive --remote
```

Optional: if you want to restore to maas-ui master then run:

```shell
git checkout .gitmodules
git submodule sync
git submodule update --init --recursive --remote
```

Now you can make the UI

```shell
make ui
```

If that fails you can try:

```shell
SKIP_PREFLIGHT_CHECK=true make ui
```

You should now be able to access the MAAS in your browser:

[http://dev-maas.local:8400/MAAS/](http://dev-maas.local:8400/MAAS/).

# Creating a Multipass instance

## Install Multipass

First, install Multipass:

- [on Linux](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-linux), or
- [on a Mac](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-macos).

## Create the instance:

To be able to run maas-ui or MAAS you should allocate as many resources as you can to the instance. Don't worry, it'll share the CPU and RAM with the host and only take up the disk space it currently requires.

_Note: you can't increase the disk size once the instance has been created_

Check what resources your computer has and then run:

```shell
multipass launch -c [the number of cores] -d [some amount of disk space] -m [the amount of ram] --name [the instance name]
```

You should end up with a command something like this:

```shell
multipass launch -c 4 -d 20G -m 16G --name dev
```

## SSH credentials

You have two options for having SSH credentials in your Multipass instance.

### Host credentials

This method allows you to use the SSH credentials from your host machine and doesn't require you to create new SSH credentials for each Multipass instance.

You can follow [this guide](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) for setting up the ssh-agent.

Then you can log into your instance with:

```shell
ssh -A multipass@[instance-name].local
```

### Instance credentials

Access your instance with:

```shell
multipass shell [instance-name]
```

Then [generate a new SSH key](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) and [add it to your Github account](https://help.github.com/en/articles/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

### macOS

#### VPN configuration

To connect to a remote MAAS over the VPN, you'll need to configure _nat_ on your macOS host:

1. run `ifconfig` and make note of the `utun` interfaces.
2. For every `utun` interface, add the following line to `/etc/pf.conf` directly after any existing `nat-anchor` or `nat` commands (the order is significant):

```shell
nat on utun0 from bridge100:network to any -> (utun0)
```

3. Run `sudo pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf` to update configuration.
4. You should be able to `ping karura.internal` from your maas multipass.

Be aware that this may prevent reaching hosts on your internal network. You can of course comment out the `nat` configuration and rerun `sudo pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf` to reset everything.

# Creating a LXD instance

## Install LXD on Linux

The recommended way to install LXD is with the snap. For the latest stable release, use:

``` shell
snap install lxd
```

If you previously had the LXD deb package installed, you can migrate all your existing data over with:
``` shell
lxd.migrate
```

See the [official LXD docs](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/getting-started-cli/#installation) for information on installing LXD on other OSes.

## Initialise LXD

By default, LXD comes with no configured network or storage. You can get a basic configuration suitable for MAAS with:

``` shell
lxd init
```

## Launch the instance

You can launch an instance with the command `lxc launch`:

``` shell
lxc launch imageserver:imagename instancename
```

For example, to create an instance based on the Ubuntu Focal Fossa image with the name `focal-maas`, you would run:

``` shell
lxc launch ubuntu:20.04 focal-maas
```

See [the image server for LXC and LXD](https://us.images.linuxcontainers.org/) for a list of available images.

## Container credentials

Access your instance with:

```shell
lxc exec [container-name] bash -- su ubuntu
```

Then [generate a new SSH key](https://help.github.com/en/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) and [add it to your Github account](https://help.github.com/en/articles/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).


# Building

Ensure both node (current LTS) and yarn are installed.

From the root of the MAAS UI project run:

```shell
dotrun build-all
```

Optimised production bundles for both `ui` and `legacy` will be built, and output to `./build`.

# Testing with Cypress
[Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) is an end-to-end Javascript testing framework that executes in the browser, and therefore in the same run loop as the device under test. It includes features such as time travel (through the use of UI snapshots), real-time reloads and automatic/intuitive waiting.

## Running headless tests

### Note
⚠️ Cypress tests assume that the user `admin` with password `test` exists on the maas server.

To run headless Cypress tests, enter the following command from the root of the project:

```shell
yarn test-cypress
```

This will automatically start legacy, ui and proxy servers and run the Cypress tests, in which results are logged to the console. After running the tests, the servers and process will close.

## Interactive testing

By launching the Cypress Test Runner, you will be able to to see commands as they execute while also viewing the UI while it's being tested. Note that because the Cypress Test Runner is a graphical application, launching it in a container or VM will require some extra steps because you will need to forward the XVFB messages from Cypress out of the container into an X11 server running on the host machine.

### Interactive testing on host machine

If developing directly on your host machine, simply run maas-ui in development as normal:

```shell
yarn serve
```

Then open the Cypress Test Runner by running:

```shell
yarn cypress-open
```

You should then see a list of test specs in maas-ui. You can run all interactive tests by clicking "Run all specs" in the top-right of the window.

### Interactive testing in LXD

You will need to create or update an LXD profile that allows running GUI applications. If creating a new profile, run:

```shell
lxc profile create gui
```

Open the profile config:

```shell
lxc profile edit gui
```

And replace with the following yaml:

```yaml
config:
  environment.DISPLAY: :0
  raw.idmap: both 1000 1000
  user.user-data: |
    #cloud-config
    runcmd:
      - 'sed -i "s/; enable-shm = yes/enable-shm = no/g" /etc/pulse/client.conf'
      - 'echo export PULSE_SERVER=unix:/tmp/.pulse-native | tee --append /home/ubuntu/.profile'
    packages:
      - x11-apps
      - mesa-utils
      - pulseaudio
description: GUI LXD profile
devices:
  PASocket:
    path: /tmp/.pulse-native
    source: /run/user/1000/pulse/native
    type: disk
  X0:
    path: /tmp/.X11-unix/X0
    source: /tmp/.X11-unix/X0
    type: disk
  mygpu:
    type: gpu
name: gui
used_by:
```

Now either launch a new container with this profile, for example using Ubuntu 18.04:

```shell
lxc launch --profile default --profile gui ubuntu:18.04 container-name
```

Or if you have an existing LXD container, you can update the profile by running:

```shell
lxc profile assign existing-container default,gui
lxc restart existing-container
```

Install the following dependencies in your container, which are required for Cypress to relay information to the host machine:

```shell
sudo apt-get install xvfb libgtk-3-dev libnotify-dev libgconf-2-4 libnss3 libxss1 libasound2
```

You may need to install Cypress explicitly if you've set up file-sharing with your host/container.

```shell
node_modules/.bin/cypress install
```

You should now be able to open the Cypress Test Runner in your container by running:

```shell
yarn cypress-open
```

If you encounter an error with file watchers e.g. `ENOSPC: System limit for number of file watchers reached`, run:

```shell
echo "fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288" | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
sudo sysctl -p
```

For more information on running GUI applications in LXD, refer to [this blog post](https://blog.simos.info/how-to-easily-run-graphics-accelerated-gui-apps-in-lxd-containers-on-your-ubuntu-desktop/).

### Interactive testing in multipass

Install the following dependencies in your multipass, which are required for Cypress to relay information to the host machine:

```shell
sudo apt-get install xvfb libgtk-3-dev libnotify-dev libgconf-2-4 libnss3 libxss1 libasound2
```

Next, validate whether ssh on the multipass VM is configured to forward X11 communication. Ensure you have the following values in `/etc/ssh/ssh_config`:

```shell
ForwardX11 yes
ForwardX11Trusted yes
```

And the following values in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`:

```shell
X11Forwarding yes
X11DisplayOffset 10
PrintMotd no
TCPKeepAlive yes
```

The following steps will differ depending on the OS of the host system.

#### Ubuntu setup

Since you are running from an Ubuntu graphical desktop then you already have an X11 server running locally so no further installation is necessary.

#### MacOS setup

First install XQuartz, which is the Mac version of X11. You can install XQuartz using homebrew with:

```shell
brew cask install xquartz
```

Or directly from the website [here](https://www.xquartz.org/). You will now need to restart your machine.

Start XQuartz using:

```shell
open -a XQuartz
```

In the XQuartz preferences, go to the “Security” tab and make sure you’ve got “Allow connections from network clients” ticked.

#### Establish connection

Establish an ssh connection from your graphical desktop to the remote X client using the “-Y” switch for trusted X11 forwarding. Note that you may need to add your host's public SSH key to the multipass' list of allowed hosts.

```shell
ssh -Y multipass@<multipass-ip>
```

You should now be able to run the Cypress Test Runner by running:

```shell
yarn cypress-open
```

# Adding a new yarn workspace

To add a new yarn workspace, edit `package.json` and add the project's directory name to the `workspaces` array.

To import modules from existing projects in your new project, add the dependant projects to your projects dependencies in `package.json`.
